Slide 1 - Project name 

Good evening every one. My topic for the project arebiet is Robot Guided Ultrasound Probe caliberation and volume scanning.



Silde 2 - Project overview 
THIS  ARBEIT IS PART OF THE PROJET - 
Let me start by giving  a breif overview of the whole project and then talk about the parts I am working on in Detail


This is divided into sub module which are ......read slides 

I am working o Caliberation of lInear probe  and augementation of 2d scans to 3d volume.  


 

Slide 3 - Motivation and goals

Guided interventions are a way to help physicain  virtually visualise the target in surgical sight for needle insertions or 
isualisepath way for an aspiration.

Exisiting solution concentrate on free hand probe caliberation using external trackers and cameras. 


In order to enable guided assistance US volume has to be scanned and trasfromed in meaning full way which requires the postion of 
the probe to be known with respect to world cordinates.

Position can determined by Caliberation.

After caliberation 2d scans can be agumented into 3d volume.


Slide 4 - Methodology 

Lets dicuss the work flow the project. 

I  started with the  design of caliberation phantom ( z wire or n wire phantom )

Aquire Images of the caliberation phantom 

Segment the aquired images 

Extract markers  from segmented images

Estimate the pose 

Caliberate the probe 

Agumentation 



Slide 5 - Hand eye caliberation

This is the basic overview of the hand eye calibration 
A = is obtained by forward kinematics  (TF from robot base to end effector)

B = TF from phantom cordinate frame to US probe Cordinate from 

X = TF from robot end effector to US probe 


Slide 6 - Design of Calibration phantom

I designed the phantom  in fusion 360 and printed it using 3d printer. 

Its  10 cms in height 15 cms in width and 10 cms in height

The holes are 10mm apart in both directons 

Using a fishing wire to create the n or z shape. As the wire due to its properties can be easily. 

I am using 4 layers with 3 in same direction and 4 in different direction


I created a point cloud model imitating the same. 



Slide 7 - data aquitision and segmentation 

Capturing US images can be quite challeing. As it is very sensitive. 

Airbubble and bust particles are external problems. 
Also the base while capturing should be a matrial that desnt not reflect sound much. 

Shown is the 1st capture the base and instersection of wire with imae plane is seen 


After playing with the parameters in the supra interface I was able to obtain clean images that are easy to segment. 
(Parameters to control the witdth of the beam that is emmitted and also to what depth)  

Still is it chanllenging to segment the markers that are close to each other.

I applied 

Median filter and Noise removal by filtering groups of 10 or less pixels and then morphoogial operation this helps
 to seprate blobs close to each other 

(median filter - removes noise by averaging with pixels in the neighbor hood  I used kernel size of 7)



I obatined good results as shown in the next slide 



Slide -8  Marker extraction 

To extract the marker points I used the matlab vision toolbox and used the built in functions 


Also I used kmeans algorithm to identify 12 clusters and provide centriod of the clusters 

Both methods leads to almost same results.


Slide 9  - Pose Estimation 

This is the most challenging part of the Caliberation process. 

Find a trasfrom from the wire phantom to the US Probe frame 


The images obatined are in 2d and represent only one x-y plane of the phantom. 


These markers are to be  mappped or registered to 3d phantom. 

The structure of the wire phantom can be exploited here. 
Available distance ratios match the markers to the phantom. 

I am currently iterating one plane of phantom and matching the points and computing the trasfrom and estimate the mean error. 

As long as the error is decreasing iterations continue if the error increases from previos iteration the loop stops 

I able to to achinve mean estimation error of the 0.76mm


Slide 10 - Pose estimation results 

Here we can see the markers captured from US probe are trasformed to match the phantom.  

This trasfromation can be used to perform hand eye calibration. 



Slide 11 - upcoming taskes 

In the future i will work twards solving the hand eye problem and and obatin 3d volume by scanning the show object. 



Slide 12 


Thank you. If you have any questions or suggestions I would be pleased 









